Cola is a carbonated soft drink flavored with vanilla, cinnamon, citrus oils,
and other flavorings. Cola became popular worldwide after the American
pharmacist John Stith Pemberton invented Coca-Cola, a trademarked brand, in
1886, which was imitated by other manufacturers. Most colas originally
contained caffeine from the kola nut (Cola acuminata), leading to the drink's
name, though other sources of caffeine are generally used in modern
formulations. The Pemberton cola drink also contained a coca plant extract.
His non-alcoholic recipe was inspired by the coca wine of pharmacist Angelo
Mariani, created in 1863.Most modern colas have a dark caramel color and are
sweetened with sugar and/or high-fructose corn syrup. They come in numerous
different brands, with Coca-Cola and Pepsi being among the most popular. These
two companies have been competing since the 1890s, a rivalry that has
intensified since the 1980s. == Flavorings == The primary modern flavorings in
a cola drink are citrus oils (from orange, lime, and lemon peels), cinnamon,
vanilla, and an acidic flavorant. Manufacturers of cola drinks add trace
flavorings to create distinctive tastes for each brand. Trace flavorings may
include a wide variety of ingredients, such as spices like nutmeg or
coriander. Acidity is often provided by phosphoric acid, sometimes accompanied
by citric or other isolated acids. Coca-Cola's recipe is maintained as a
corporate trade secret. A variety of different sweeteners may be used in cola,
often influenced by local agricultural policy. High-fructose corn syrup (HFCS)
is predominantly used in the United States due to the lower cost of
government-subsidized corn. In Europe, however, HFCS is subject to production
quotas designed to encourage the production of sugar; sugar is thus
preferentially used to sweeten sodas. In addition, stevia or an artificial
sweetener may be used; "sugar-free" or "diet" colas typically contain
artificial sweeteners only. In Japan, there is a burgeoning craft cola
industry, with small-scale local production methods and highly unique cola
recipes using locally-sourced fruits, herbs, and spices. == Clear cola == In
the 1940s, Coca-Cola produced White Coke at the request of Marshal of the
Soviet Union Georgy Zhukov.Clear colas were again produced during the clear
craze of the early 1990s. Brands included Crystal Pepsi, Tab Clear, and 7 Up
Ice Cola. Crystal Pepsi was repeatedly reintroduced in the 2010s. In Denmark,
a popular clear cola was made by the Cooperative FDB in 1976. It was
especially known for being the "Hippie Cola" because of the focus on the
harmful effects the color additive could have on children and the boycott of
multinational brands. It was inspired by a campaign on harmful additives in
Denmark by the Environmental-Organization NOAH, an independent Danish division
of Friends of the Earth. This was followed up with a variety of sodas without
artificial coloring. Today many organic colas are available in Denmark, but,
for nostalgic reasons, clear cola has still maintained its popularity to a
certain degree.In June 2018, Coca-Cola introduced Coca-Cola Clear in Japan. ==
Health effects == A 2007 study claimed that consumption of colas, both those
with natural sweetening and those with artificial sweetening, was associated
with an increased risk of chronic kidney disease. The phosphoric acid used in
colas was thought to be a possible cause.One 2005 study indicated soda and
sweetened drinks are the main source of calories in the American diet and that
of those who drink more sweetened drinks, obesity rates were higher. Most
nutritionists advise that Coca-Cola and other soft drinks can be harmful if
consumed excessively, particularly to young children whose soft drink
consumption competes with, rather than complements, a balanced diet. Studies
have shown that regular soft drink users have a lower intake of calcium,
magnesium, vitamin C, riboflavin, and vitamin A.The drink has also aroused
criticism f