What is Kpop? Here is everything you need to know

Last modified: Apr 09, 2024 |  13 min read | By Joseph Gerocs

What is Kpop? What does Kpop mean?

These might be your questions when you've heard the term and would like to know more about why it's becoming so popular.

Or perhaps you are curious about South Korea and want to learn more about the music.

This article will answer all the questions you have about K-pop, as well as explain everything you need to know related to this music phenomenon. Let's get to it!

Below is a free PDF guide for 
Get 
Contents

1 What does Kpop stand for?
  1.1 What is Kpop music?
  1.2 What is Kpop in Korean?
  1.3 What is Kpop in Hangeul?
  1.4 What are some distinctive features of K-pop?
2 Kpop History When did Kpop start?
  2.1 What was the first Kpop group in Korea?
3 What is a K-pop idol?
  3.1 Popular Kpop Idols and Idol Groups
4 Why is Korean Pop Music So Popular?
  4.1 What are the most popular K-pop songs?
5 How did K-pop become a worldwide phenomenon?
  5.1 BTS
  5.2 K-pop in Television
  5.3 Why is K-pop unique?
6 What is the Hallyu Wave and how does it relate to K-pop?
7 How to Become a K-pop Idol?
8 How to Get into Kpop?
9 Wrap Up

What does Kpop stand for?

Kpop stands for Korean popular music. It is most commonly known as K-pop which is mainstream music that originated in South Korea.

K-pop music in the country could be considered similar to Taylor Swift in the United States.

You may see Korean pop written as K-pop, K pop, Kpop, K-Pop, and KPOP.

What is Kpop music?

The term K-pop includes many different musical elements and other genres under its umbrella. Along with Korean pop, it can also include Korean rock music, hip hop, and electronic music. K-pop is considered a fairly new form of music. The type of Kpop music that you're listening to today was formed around the 1990s.

The roots of K-pop began in the 1950s, however, and have since then already been influenced a lot by different types of Western music and pop groups. American pop music culture has especially had and still does have an effect on K-Pop.

What is Kpop in Korean?

Earlier, we learned Kpop means Korean popular music. However, Kpop in Korean is 
